Docs: Okta integration docs overhaul (#52821)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/enroll-resources/application-access/okta/app-and-group-sync.mdx

---

> title: Okta apps and groups sync

Reviewer: We use title case for titles. I would give the [Style guide](https://www.notion.so/goteleport/Style-guide-160fdd3830be80a79e70f08df2df2a0a) a read when you get a chance.

> description: Details on Okta integration apps and groups synchronization as Teleport Access Lists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Provides details on using the Okta integration to synchronization applications and groups as Teleport Access Lists.
```
- Fixing grammar
- Beginning the description with a verb per the style guide

---

Okta has its own permissions system that doesn't directly map into Teleport. This
includes permissions granted by Okta groups along with the assignment of users to individual
applications within Okta. To model this within Teleport, an administrator would typically need
to carefully craft a labeling system to attach to various Okta apps and groups and a set of
roles to go along with them.

With the synchronization of Okta apps and groups ass Teleport Access List feature in the Okta

> integration, this work is performed for you. We'll discuss the details of how this works.

Reviewer: Is this an architectural guide? When would a user read this guide?

> ## Enrollment

Reviewer: I'm not sure why the first H2 of this page is a description of other pages. I think this guide would benefit from a better-defined purpose so it doesn't overlap as much with other content.

To enroll the Okta apps and groups sync follow the instructions of *Level 1. SSO*, *Level 2. SCIM*
(optional), *Level 3. User sync* and *Level 4. App and Group sync* enrollment in the [Okta
integration setup guide](./integration-enrollment.mdx).

> ## Synchronizing Access Lists from Okta groups and applications

Reviewer: If this is an architecture guide, we should move it to `reference/architecture`. An alternative would be to move the general architecture information to the section index page at `enroll-resources/application-access/okta/okta.mdx`. This would provide a conceptual overview of the feature so a user has a mental model to work with when navigating through the different pages.

are included in the corresponding Okta group or application.

**Example**:
  - **Teleport Structure**:
    - **Access List A**:
      - Members: User1
      - Nested Members: Access List B
    - **Access List B**:
      - Members: User2, User3
  - **Okta Representation**:
    - Group/Application for Access List A:
      - Members: User1, User2, User3

By flattening the Teleport hierarchy, all users receive the permissions associated with the root-level Access List in Okta.

### Synchronization from Okta to Teleport

When synchronizing from Okta to Teleport, the synchronizer handles the flattened structure from Okta
by attempting to map it back to the Teleport hierarchy:

- **Comparing with Teleport Hierarchy**: The flattened list of members from Okta is compared against the existing
Access List hierarchy in Teleport.
- **Adding New Members**:
  - **New Users**: If there are new users added in Okta that are not present in the Teleport Access List hierarchy,
    these users are added as members at the root-level Access List in Teleport.
  - **Maintaining Hierarchy**: This approach maintains the hierarchical structure within Teleport while ensuring

>     that access changes made in Okta are reflected appropriately.

Reviewer: I think the dense outline structure here is a little distracting I would use paragraphs instead.

- **Example**:
  - **Okta Group/Application for Access List A**:
    - Members: User1, User2, User3, User4 (User4 is a new member added in Okta)
  - **Teleport Update**:
    - **Access List A**:
      - Members: User1, User4
      - Nested Members: Access List B
    - **Access List B**:
      - Members: User2, User3

### Deletion of Access Lists

Access Lists synchronized from Okta will automatically be deleted when there are no members assigned to them in
Okta or when they are deleted in Okta.

<Admonition type="warning">
It is possible for an administrator to delete Access Lists, but this should only be done once
the Okta integration has been removed and/or Access List synchronization is disabled. This could
remove all users from the Okta group or application that's being targeted!
</Admonition>

## Working with synchronized Access Lists

When first synchronizing an Access List, the owners of the Access List will be set to the default
owners configured during the initial Okta integration enrollment, and the initial review date will
be set 6 months from the configured date. These fields are modifiable, as well as the owner and

> membership requirements. However, you will not be able to change grants, as these belong to the

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this is mentioned in the UI currently – do we want to?
